british black comedy what is that to me
it's the real mcqueen
an ensemble cast are some of the
funniest comedians that ever come out of
the uk
as a young star i'll watch it with my
family and we'd laugh until we cried
and then the next day i'll go to school
and try and act out some of these
sketches
the bbc iplayer are replaying all of
these classic episodes and i cannot
wait to show it to my kids so they can
see this amazing part of my history
and to get us ready i sat down with some
of the cast and some of the fans in the
show
to find out exactly what it meant to
them listen you have to watch the room
because simply because
there's a bunch of people there that
have the arguably
some of the most talented people in in
comedy in this country let alone just
black comedians and black people
it's so funny i think seeing
all those guys on men and women on tv
that look like me
made me go in i think it's so the early
seeds of oh this is possible when real
mcqueen was coming
hubble together we've been following all
the family of black shirts coming out
black black and tv
can we talk about the outfit we have a
picture of the outfit
there you go
you know it was popular with white
people in glasgow
dublin manchester all over england
as well as the sort of particular black
audience it was just
so beautiful because there was nothing
that was mirroring
our lives during that time i remember
watching i think robbie did like a chris
eubank this is when robbie was half the
man he was now
the real mccoy it was a comedy show but
it was also
documenting what was going on in our
lives at that time i'm laughing and yet
i've got hairs raising up with my arms
watching the sketch somebody is a
powerful tool and you can use comedy
and still have a little bit of a bite at
the end of it instead of
uh you know where the punchline should
be have a thoughtful moment
i employed the concept of edutainment
uh whilst at the same time trying to
make the audience
think about what was being said in the
form of humor
yes
coming back to our tv screens the bbc
they are
um at the end of the month and i'm
chatting to you some of the cast and
some of the people that have been
inspired by the show
and i'm very very happy to have one in
line right now ak from family what's
going on bro
what's happening bro what's happening
you good i'm i'm excellent man
um family i i think i've said that to
you before i think it is just definitely
a descendant
of the rumor how traumatic
it's on the same dna i mean even if you
just look at it on the basis of like
i've worked with robbie from when i was
like 15
16 worked with luella and
and and i grew up watching the show and
i was little when it was out
when it was in its um heyday but it's
such an
important um show and so to have another
sketcher with uh with a black british
cast
um covering a lot of the ground uh
you know it's it's from the direct cloth
of it you know what i mean
is it what inspired you to want to get
in tv and
maybe start writing or be on the tv as a
performer what
is that what did that do for you
um real mccoy sold those seeds because i
thought
oh snap there's people that look and
talk like my mum and my uncles and my
aunts
this is possible and they're in the
telly because when i was a little kid
it's that thing of like how do i get in
the telly
and and so yeah it definitely sold those
seeds and looking back on it like oh
that's definitely
part of my dna you know people must
still come up to you and talk about jam
full man
you know what you it was so successful
we actually started to hate the
characters
um you'd get shot is that full man
as you're walking and i'd actually have
to say the line
is it boy i played idiot boy
and there's a grown man you don't be
walking down brooklyn high street
shouting out i played idiot work after
they said yeah
why actually it's damn full man able to
chat foolishness faster than a speeding
bullet
this week's episode what a fool
[Music]
it was a lot of silly but it was
definitely a lot of like social
commentary as well you guys are touching
on a lot of the serious stuff that's
going on and stuff that's really
relevant even today in today's climate
like how i hope so
extremely proud of that but everything
we did it was
about the the yin and the yang you know
the social commentary stuff was stuff we
were doing live
so in stand-up terms as in live
performances
and when you had the opportunity to get
that on screen it was
absolutely fantastic and so needed
comedy is a powerful tool and you can
use comedy
and still have a little bit of a bite at
the end of it instead of
you know where the punchline should be
have a thoughtful moment
it's a powerful tool always has
who are you what do you want
we want to join the bnp
you know what you guys tackled a lot of
social
issues talk to us about that please you
know
i employed the concept of edutainment
which is what i was
doing as a stand-up on the stage
entertaining whilst at the same time
trying to
make the audience think about what was
being said
in the form of humor and so we always
when i was writing the sketches i wrote
i always tried to have that
component in there with the express
aim and desire to have people laughing
and nodding their heads at the same time
saying wow
that's true tactius the roman scribe
said that the people that were here on
his arrival were black
david mcritchie historian said the same
thing
archaeologists gerald macy and godfrey
higgins came to the same conclusion
and they're white i don't understand
and that's what we that's what we tried
to do and based on the feedback i've had
over the years
it seemed like it it really worked
entertainment
i loved that what leo said as well is it
wasn't just entertainment it was
edutainment there was a lot of education
and i want to play this sketch for you
right now it was about the
the beginning of slavery we will take
your entire family
on an all-expenses paid voice to a new
land
for a very exciting and unusually
extended working holiday
so what do you all think i think it's
good i think it's good
no it is too good to be true i bet there
is a catch
although it's funny it's a very powerful
sketch i'm laughing and yeah i've got
hair gradient
in my arms in the chest and sometimes
you thought well would it get through
but if it was funny it got through it
and
that's leo is all about edge containment
what was interesting about it it had a
social context
there was some political edgy
sketches but also some really just pure
fun
silly sketches even you know leo chester
who
is now leah mohammed i mean he was
already
quite radical and intelligent and had
lots of ideas and wanted to make points
but
he did the silliest character of all mr
crazer
yes i can remember that i mean every
time we used to see him with those teeth
i mean we'd all collapsed laughing he
didn't have to do anything just put the
teeth in and we would go oh my god
so there was a lot of i think everybody
fun a
favorite sketch like i was saying i
remember going to school the next day
and everybody's trying to act out
different sketches from the real mcqueen
so
you guys did an amazing thing i want to
thank you thank you and that is actually
something that they used to say back
then if you could get
people doing the repeating it in the
playgrounds
you had a hit fisher
this is some fresh fish
[Applause]
this is
you did mention the the genius of felix
dexter
like you said that you felt like he was
the one that was gonna go like talk to
us
about what it was like working with that
man when you saw him react when he done
it live
with the audience and him he came
magical that's the only word he was
magical he observes people really well
he got
mannerisms and he done people somebody
said this i'm gonna say so it's not me
that said it but i'm gonna repeat it
that he done it with love he came up to
me and he tried to throw my coffee
making facilities out of the window
started beating him
under any librarian he asked me to go
our way out of the library you said
there's no fighting allowed in the
library
what is he talking about how can you be
so unreasonable
you're trying to throw whatever coffee
making facilities
i was a young lady there but when i was
around phoenix i think i had to wear
excuse me
to be so graphic kind of ladies you know
ten eleni's
because the guy would make me want to
work myself the guy especially when we
were backstage waiting to go on when he
was gonna go on as the train the train
driver oh my god the train driver
you know where are these characters but
they're everywhere we see them on the
london underground
the the the nigerian accountant
classic can actually look a whiteboard
they look at
children i want to talk to you about
something give me a moment
oh this three legs
felix uh was a very beautiful
person i'm very disappointed that we
lost him in the manner in which we did
unfortunately he was ill for about two
years
and he told us at the very last minute
and i
went to see him in the hospice i was
with him about half an hour before he
passed
and uh and unfortunately we lost our
beautiful
and great brother felix dexter
this toy people is coming on at the end
of the month and on the bbc iplayer
why do they need to watch the rook
mcqueen listen you have to watch the
room because simply because
there's a bunch of people there that
have the arguably
some of the most talented people in in
comedy in this country let alone just
black comedians and black people
it's so funny when i asked me to come on
it was one of the best things i've ever
done
it was so exciting all day being with
them uh
we have a very special ship that we'd
like to show you right now
if you don't mind
[Applause]
excuse me
what was it like being on this show like
do you remember that day do you remember
going on set what was it like hanging
out with the cast
[Laughter]
they were unbelievable all day all day
they were friendly
fantastic it was pure jokes all day it
was funny because i was very nervous
when i walked out there i was i could
see you i was i could see oh nervous you
know what i mean
all uncomfortable smiling all that
because you know i mean it was
it was you know it was a big lead up to
the day
and then when i've done it and i had to
take the hair i remember how to take
that off and it was a football
it was something that i'm not joking
looking back it's just
so good to see it it's so good to see it
yeah
listen if you are west indian african
asian white
whatever your background is you need to
watch the room because
it's got culture it's got laughter it's
got education it's got political stuff
in it
it's got banks i have to ask really are
they ready
are they ready because i think it's a
game changer
you